.TH maps 3 "stdlib 3.13.2" "Ericsson AB" "Erlang Module Definition"
.SH NAME
maps \- Maps processing functions.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This module contains functions for maps processing\&.
.SH DATA TYPES
.nf

\fBiterator(Key, Value)\fR\&
.br
.fi
.RS
.LP
An iterator representing the associations in a map with keys of type \fIKey\fR\& and values of type \fIValue\fR\&\&.
.LP
Created using \fImaps:iterator/1\fR\&\&.
.LP
Consumed by \fImaps:next/1\fR\&, \fImaps:filter/2\fR\&, \fImaps:fold/3\fR\& and \fImaps:map/2\fR\&\&.
.RE
.nf

\fBiterator()\fR\& = iterator(term(), term())
.br
.fi
.SH EXPORTS
.LP
.nf

.B
filter(Pred, MapOrIter) -> Map
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Pred = fun((Key, Value) -> boolean())
.br
MapOrIter = #{Key => Value} | iterator(Key, Value)
.br
Map = #{Key => Value}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a map \fIMap\fR\& for which predicate \fIPred\fR\& holds true in \fIMapOrIter\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMapOrIter\fR\& is not a map or valid iterator, or with \fIbadarg\fR\& if \fIPred\fR\& is not a function of arity 2\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> M = #{a => 2, b => 3, c=> 4, "a" => 1, "b" => 2, "c" => 4},
  Pred = fun(K,V) -> is_atom(K) andalso (V rem 2) =:= 0 end,
  maps:filter(Pred,M).
#{a => 2,c => 4}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
find(Key, Map) -> {ok, Value} | error
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{Key => Value, term() => term()}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a tuple \fI{ok, Value}\fR\&, where \fIValue\fR\& is the value associated with \fIKey\fR\&, or \fIerror\fR\& if no value is associated with \fIKey\fR\& in \fIMap\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"hi" => 42},
  Key = "hi",
  maps:find(Key,Map).
{ok,42}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
fold(Fun, Init, MapOrIter) -> Acc
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Fun = fun((Key, Value, AccIn) -> AccOut)
.br
Init = term()
.br
Acc = AccOut
.br
AccIn = Init | AccOut
.br
MapOrIter = #{Key => Value} | iterator(Key, Value)
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Calls \fIF(Key, Value, AccIn)\fR\& for every \fIKey\fR\& to value \fIValue\fR\& association in \fIMapOrIter\fR\& in any order\&. Function \fIfun F/3\fR\& must return a new accumulator, which is passed to the next successive call\&. This function returns the final value of the accumulator\&. The initial accumulator value \fIInit\fR\& is returned if the map is empty\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMapOrIter\fR\& is not a map or valid iterator, or with \fIbadarg\fR\& if \fIFun\fR\& is not a function of arity 3\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Fun = fun(K,V,AccIn) when is_list(K) -> AccIn + V end,
  Map = #{"k1" => 1, "k2" => 2, "k3" => 3},
  maps:fold(Fun,0,Map).
6
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
from_list(List) -> Map
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
List = [{Key, Value}]
.br
Key = Value = term()
.br
Map = map()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Takes a list of key-value tuples elements and builds a map\&. The associations can be in any order, and both keys and values in the association can be of any term\&. If the same key appears more than once, the latter (right-most) value is used and the previous values are ignored\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> List = [{"a",ignored},{1337,"value two"},{42,value_three},{"a",1}],
  maps:from_list(List).
#{42 => value_three,1337 => "value two","a" => 1}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
get(Key, Map) -> Value
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Key = term()
.br
Map = map()
.br
Value = term()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns value \fIValue\fR\& associated with \fIKey\fR\& if \fIMap\fR\& contains \fIKey\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map, or with a \fI{badkey,Key}\fR\& exception if no value is associated with \fIKey\fR\&\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Key = 1337,
  Map = #{42 => value_two,1337 => "value one","a" => 1},
  maps:get(Key,Map).
"value one"
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
get(Key, Map, Default) -> Value | Default
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{Key => Value, term() => term()}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns value \fIValue\fR\& associated with \fIKey\fR\& if \fIMap\fR\& contains \fIKey\fR\&\&. If no value is associated with \fIKey\fR\&, \fIDefault\fR\& is returned\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{ key1 => val1, key2 => val2 }.
#{key1 => val1,key2 => val2}
> maps:get(key1, Map, "Default value").
val1
> maps:get(key3, Map, "Default value").
"Default value"
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
is_key(Key, Map) -> boolean()
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Key = term()
.br
Map = map()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns \fItrue\fR\& if map \fIMap\fR\& contains \fIKey\fR\& and returns \fIfalse\fR\& if it does not contain the \fIKey\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"42" => value}.
#{"42" => value}
> maps:is_key("42",Map).
true
> maps:is_key(value,Map).
false
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
iterator(Map) -> Iterator
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{Key => Value}
.br
Iterator = iterator(Key, Value)
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a map iterator \fIIterator\fR\& that can be used by \fImaps:next/1\fR\& to traverse the key-value associations in a map\&. When iterating over a map, the memory usage is guaranteed to be bounded no matter the size of the map\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> M = #{ a => 1, b => 2 }.
#{a => 1,b => 2}
> I = maps:iterator(M), ok.
ok
> {K1, V1, I2} = maps:next(I), {K1, V1}.
{a,1}
> {K2, V2, I3} = maps:next(I2),{K2, V2}.
{b,2}
> maps:next(I3).
none
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
keys(Map) -> Keys
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{Key => term()}
.br
Keys = [Key]
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a complete list of keys, in any order, which resides within \fIMap\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{42 => value_three,1337 => "value two","a" => 1},
  maps:keys(Map).
[42,1337,"a"]
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
map(Fun, MapOrIter) -> Map
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Fun = fun((Key, Value1) -> Value2)
.br
MapOrIter = #{Key => Value1} | iterator(Key, Value1)
.br
Map = #{Key => Value2}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Produces a new map \fIMap\fR\& by calling function \fIfun F(Key, Value1)\fR\& for every \fIKey\fR\& to value \fIValue1\fR\& association in \fIMapOrIter\fR\& in any order\&. Function \fIfun Fun/2\fR\& must return value \fIValue2\fR\& to be associated with key \fIKey\fR\& for the new map \fIMap\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMapOrIter\fR\& is not a map or valid iterator, or with \fIbadarg\fR\& if \fIFun\fR\& is not a function of arity 2\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Fun = fun(K,V1) when is_list(K) -> V1*2 end,
  Map = #{"k1" => 1, "k2" => 2, "k3" => 3},
  maps:map(Fun,Map).
#{"k1" => 2,"k2" => 4,"k3" => 6}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
merge(Map1, Map2) -> Map3
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map1 = Map2 = Map3 = map()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Merges two maps into a single map \fIMap3\fR\&\&. If two keys exist in both maps, the value in \fIMap1\fR\& is superseded by the value in \fIMap2\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap1\fR\& or \fIMap2\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map1 = #{a => "value_one", b => "value_two"},
  Map2 = #{a => 1, c => 2},
  maps:merge(Map1,Map2).
#{a => 1,b => "value_two",c => 2}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
new() -> Map
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a new empty map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> maps:new().
#{}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
next(Iterator) -> {Key, Value, NextIterator} | none
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Iterator = NextIterator = iterator(Key, Value)
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns the next key-value association in \fIIterator\fR\& and a new iterator for the remaining associations in the iterator\&.
.LP
If there are no more associations in the iterator, \fInone\fR\& is returned\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{a => 1, b => 2, c => 3}.
#{a => 1,b => 2,c => 3}
> I = maps:iterator(Map), ok.
ok
> {K1, V1, I1} = maps:next(I), {K1, V1}.
{a,1}
> {K2, V2, I2} = maps:next(I1), {K2, V2}.
{b,2}
> {K3, V3, I3} = maps:next(I2), {K3, V3}.
{c,3}
> maps:next(I3).
none
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
put(Key, Value, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Key = Value = term()
.br
Map1 = Map2 = map()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Associates \fIKey\fR\& with value \fIValue\fR\& and inserts the association into map \fIMap2\fR\&\&. If key \fIKey\fR\& already exists in map \fIMap1\fR\&, the old associated value is replaced by value \fIValue\fR\&\&. The function returns a new map \fIMap2\fR\& containing the new association and the old associations in \fIMap1\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap1\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"a" => 1}.
#{"a" => 1}
> maps:put("a", 42, Map).
#{"a" => 42}
> maps:put("b", 1337, Map).
#{"a" => 1,"b" => 1337}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
remove(Key, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Key = term()
.br
Map1 = Map2 = map()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Removes the \fIKey\fR\&, if it exists, and its associated value from \fIMap1\fR\& and returns a new map \fIMap2\fR\& without key \fIKey\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap1\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"a" => 1}.
#{"a" => 1}
> maps:remove("a",Map).
#{}
> maps:remove("b",Map).
#{"a" => 1}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
size(Map) -> integer() >= 0
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = map()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns the number of key-value associations in \fIMap\fR\&\&. This operation occurs in constant time\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{42 => value_two,1337 => "value one","a" => 1},
  maps:size(Map).
3
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
take(Key, Map1) -> {Value, Map2} | error
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map1 = #{Key => Value, term() => term()}
.br
Map2 = #{term() => term()}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
The function removes the \fIKey\fR\&, if it exists, and its associated value from \fIMap1\fR\& and returns a tuple with the removed \fIValue\fR\& and the new map \fIMap2\fR\& without key \fIKey\fR\&\&. If the key does not exist \fIerror\fR\& is returned\&.
.LP
The call will fail with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap1\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
Example:
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"a" => "hello", "b" => "world"}.
#{"a" => "hello", "b" => "world"}
> maps:take("a",Map).
{"hello",#{"b" => "world"}}
> maps:take("does not exist",Map).
error
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
to_list(Map) -> [{Key, Value}]
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{Key => Value}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a list of pairs representing the key-value associations of \fIMap\fR\&, where the pairs \fI[{K1,V1}, \&.\&.\&., {Kn,Vn}]\fR\& are returned in arbitrary order\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{42 => value_three,1337 => "value two","a" => 1},
  maps:to_list(Map).
[{42,value_three},{1337,"value two"},{"a",1}]
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
update(Key, Value, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map1 = #{Key := term(), term() => term()}
.br
Map2 = #{Key := Value, term() => term()}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
If \fIKey\fR\& exists in \fIMap1\fR\&, the old associated value is replaced by value \fIValue\fR\&\&. The function returns a new map \fIMap2\fR\& containing the new associated value\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap1\fR\& is not a map, or with a \fI{badkey,Key}\fR\& exception if no value is associated with \fIKey\fR\&\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"a" => 1}.
#{"a" => 1}
> maps:update("a", 42, Map).
#{"a" => 42}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
update_with(Key, Fun, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map1 = #{Key := Value1, term() => term()}
.br
Map2 = #{Key := Value2, term() => term()}
.br
Fun = fun((Value1) -> Value2)
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Update a value in a \fIMap1\fR\& associated with \fIKey\fR\& by calling \fIFun\fR\& on the old value to get a new value\&. An exception \fI{badkey,Key}\fR\& is generated if \fIKey\fR\& is not present in the map\&.
.LP
Example:
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"counter" => 1},
  Fun = fun(V) -> V + 1 end,
  maps:update_with("counter",Fun,Map).
#{"counter" => 2}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
update_with(Key, Fun, Init, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map1 = #{Key => Value1, term() => term()}
.br
Map2 = #{Key := Value2 | Init, term() => term()}
.br
Fun = fun((Value1) -> Value2)
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Update a value in a \fIMap1\fR\& associated with \fIKey\fR\& by calling \fIFun\fR\& on the old value to get a new value\&. If \fIKey\fR\& is not present in \fIMap1\fR\& then \fIInit\fR\& will be associated with \fIKey\fR\&\&.
.LP
Example:
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{"counter" => 1},
  Fun = fun(V) -> V + 1 end,
  maps:update_with("new counter",Fun,42,Map).
#{"counter" => 1,"new counter" => 42}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
values(Map) -> Values
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Map = #{term() => Value}
.br
Values = [Value]
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a complete list of values, in arbitrary order, contained in map \fIMap\fR\&\&.
.LP
The call fails with a \fI{badmap,Map}\fR\& exception if \fIMap\fR\& is not a map\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{42 => value_three,1337 => "value two","a" => 1},
  maps:values(Map).
[value_three,"value two",1]
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
with(Ks, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Ks = [K]
.br
Map1 = #{K => V, term() => term()}
.br
Map2 = #{K => V}
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a new map \fIMap2\fR\& with the keys \fIK1\fR\& through \fIKn\fR\& and their associated values from map \fIMap1\fR\&\&. Any key in \fIKs\fR\& that does not exist in \fIMap1\fR\& is ignored\&.
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{42 => value_three,1337 => "value two","a" => 1},
  Ks = ["a",42,"other key"],
  maps:with(Ks,Map).
#{42 => value_three,"a" => 1}
.fi
.RE
.LP
.nf

.B
without(Ks, Map1) -> Map2
.br
.fi
.br
.RS
.LP
Types:

.RS 3
Ks = [K]
.br
Map1 = Map2 = map()
.br
K = term()
.br
.RE
.RE
.RS
.LP
Returns a new map \fIMap2\fR\& without keys \fIK1\fR\& through \fIKn\fR\& and their associated values from map \fIMap1\fR\&\&. Any key in \fIKs\fR\& that does not exist in \fIMap1\fR\& is ignored
.LP
\fIExample:\fR\&
.LP
.nf

> Map = #{42 => value_three,1337 => "value two","a" => 1},
  Ks = ["a",42,"other key"],
  maps:without(Ks,Map).
#{1337 => "value two"}
.fi
.RE